Hello, you're coming to the end of your projects
and you probably feel like you need a
little bit of advice from someone who's been through it. We have Tara and
Andrea here again. Tara, what was the end
of the project like? Well, maybe they really hit the fan until not
built for last week, but the week even before that, because I was doing
user testing, so that was actually
a comma week. But the week before that, it was like fire and brimstone. It was clinging to the peak of a tall mountain
gasping for air, trying to get the
last bits working, trying to suss out the last bugs that
were in the project. I don't think I saw
people much that week. Yeah, definitely
that makes sense. It was actually me
and my projects. Concentrating on it, right? Literally, that was the
only thing that existed. You get to that point
where you're just like, I want this to go well. Yeah. I want to finish it. I need to finish it. This is going to be great. Just one last push. Just one last push, because by that time most of the
things were already done. Yeah. Well, if you're planning right, most things are already
done and you're just really trying to perfect and fine-tune the small bits and you just want it to be
as perfect as possible. It was quite stressful, but you can't help but also
feel really excited to one, to be able to let go
finally and be like I'm done and get that
weight off the shoulders. But also get really
trying to have it, just really trying to get to that point where
you can just tick off that last thing
on the to-do box. Just like a big relief, you've got on the top of
the mountain finally. Exactly. Yeah. We actually really enjoy it. You really love
what you've done. You really want people to
experience it as much as you've loved it and
wanted it to be so as much as it's like ah, it's also like rewarding. Yeah, you just have to
get that last push. I think that was the
sensation on the end of it because you spend
so much time with it, and then when you see other
people playing with it, that's just an
amazing sensation. It is. I think it was one of the best
days of my life in a sense because I really felt that all the effort and passion
that I put into it, it was worth it, and it wasn't so much, and the week before that,
something happened. When you said you
shouldn't be tweaking your project in the
very last weeks, you shouldn't be doing that. Disclaimer. Disclaimer on that. I was working on the
project and then I got this sort of negative
feedback about the air system. There wasn't enough air
coming through the bowl, the sphere that it was using
as a controller essentially. I was asked, "can you
pump it up a little bit, can you have a little
bit more air coming through the fun system?" I was like, yeah,
sure. Let me just go and change the
circuit completely. I did that like 10 days
before the deadline. I went in, I changed
the circuit. I was making sure
that everything was working fine before
I turned it on. It was all good and fine. I went to sleep and went
back there the next morning. I turn it on, I tried to play the game and that
thing exploded. I completely almost caught fire, and the thing is that
because I was using series connection for
the communication between Arduino and my laptop and it was wired
through a USB cable, my laptop exploded with it. It was like a domino effect. Like a domino effect,
and guess what? The laptop was attached
to the projector, and the projector
exploded as well. That happened 10 days
before the deadline. You were fine? I was fine. I've been waiting at
some point to say, point to say, he was fine. I think it took me
like 10 minutes to address the problem. I think I stared at the floor
for about 5-10 minutes, looking at my project. Assessing it. Yeah, assessing it. I mean, that's something that
could happen sometimes, but again, I was so
passionate about it. I spent so much time with it. I was like, I can't let it go. I need to fix this
before the deadline. I went back to the lab and make sure that
it was working by the end and it was and that was twice a winner for
me at the end of it. Yeah. But yeah, it was
a journey indeed. Things that can blow up and
things can literally blow up. Blow up. Yes, in the meaning of the word. Yes. But it's amazing that you were able to
still submit something. Yes, I mean, I didn't
catch any sleep but that was part of it. But again, just making that thing at the end of
it was a complete success. I was really proud and
really happy with it, and you should be too because you are almost at the end of it. How did you manage the
stress of that time? There's obviously a lot of
stress for both of you. Well, I don't know
about you Tara, but the stress throughout
the project was very similar to any other
modules that I encounter, but it was a different
aspect to it. It was something that I chose. Yeah. It was a project that
we could choose. It was a little
bit less of stress because it was a longer
period, it was six months in. At the beginning of it, you wouldn't really
feel that stress. But as you approach the
deadline, of course, the stress kicks in
and that happens pretty much everywhere
even in life. I mean, I was coping with that by working really hard with it, but just make sure you also
get some time off from it. Just make sure you do what you like as well and
work hard on the project. But yeah, just take
this time off, whenever you feel like it. I think just get that balance between project
and life as well. I think that's one way you
can handle the stress. The last week of my project unfortunately wasn't like that, I couldn't do anything
else apart from fixing that hardware
harder part, but yeah, that's the way I handled a little bit of stress. Amazing. Definitely
like you said, the fact that it was
a passion project, really helped to control
the stress aspect of it. Because when you're really
bashing your head into it, you have that motivation to keep going because it's not something that someones
forced on you, it's not like coursework
that is not really outside the niche
of what you want to go, we all get that. But it was something
that you chose to do. It was something that you
dedicate to really reset, to understand, to build, so it becomes like your baby. It's part of you. It's part of you. I'm angry
but I'm still going to come back in an hour and
I want to sort you out. Exactly. It's something like that. Yeah. That's something
that will follow you after this project is done. Yeah. Every job you're going to get, you're going to feel stress, and everyone has their different
ways of managing it. I mean, yeah. It builds naturally
to your cycle, the things you like to do. You said, doing
things that you like, definitely having a bit of escapism sometimes from
your project is so good. When you're hitting a wall, it's always best not to try and force yourself through it, but to sometimes go
away, go for a walk. Yeah. Take some time off. Do another project. Yeah,
read a book. Play some games. Do some sports if you want. Put your mind in a
completely different space. Yeah. you'll be surprised that's when your mind will
just lock back on. Your mind and brain
starts to work again. You just build
yourself up again. Yeah exactly. We can't say that
stress will not come. Stress will come, you're
probably stressed now. Yes. We've been there.
We feel your pain. We do. But you will push through it. Take your breaks, find your ways of managing your stress in a way that's kind of mixing the positive activity, positive experience
with whatever you're doing right now
for your projects. Keeping that balance
is so important. Yeah, I mean, stress is also a part of it and it
teaches you something. For about that last
week was for me, it is something that I would
remember for the rest of my life but not just because
that thing exploded, but because like the desire and the passion I had to go back
and actually finish it up. It's something that teaches
you not to give up. Not just in your final project, but pretty much in anything
you do in life in my opinion. It's a discipline, right? Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
It's good practice. Any other bits of advice for students nearing the
end of Their projects? I would just say, first of all, you should be proud of what
you've achieved so far. Definitely. Because you've worked
really hard with this. Be proud of what you did
and just do one last push. You're weeks away from your submission so
make sure you do your last little bit of work and then enjoy your
project later on. Yeah. Yeah, I would say that. The most important thing is don't forget to
have fun with it. Yeah. It's something that
you're training to be a good experience. If it's up at trying to
teach someone something, trying to build
awareness or something, trying to just do a
mechanic and a new way. Whatever you're
trying to do, you chose to do this because
you thought it was going to be an amazing project so be proud of what you're doing
and also have fun with it. Don't look at that last
thing you're trying to do, stop it, leave it
alone, it's fine. It's time to concentrate
on finishing this project. Whatever you have
now, just make sure that you're working
towards making that the best version of that state as possible in time
for your submission. You can always come back later. You can always pick this aspect or feature
up in another project. Just don't build more stress. We're talking about stress here. Don't do it. Don't do it. Pull it
down. Leave it alone. Learn from me, learn
from my mistake. Learn from his mistakes. I mean, in theory,
it should work. It should work. Bit it did it for me. But it didn't. yeah. Whatever you have now, just be proud of it and stick
to it until the end. Yes. We are proud of
you, you are doing well. Enjoy your last few weeks
of your undergrads degree. I'm sure it's going to be great. Yeah. I mean, it's something
that won't come back, so make sure you
enjoy that as well. Any final thoughts or memories about the time you
were doing your project? I just remember really
enjoying my project. Talking about it so much really reminded me how much of
oppression project it was. This really set me down on
a path I am today in this talking about VR and
doing my PhD in VR. Without that, I don't know if that headset would have
come out but yeah, who knows what I have done for my final project and I don't know where I
would be right now. It really set me on the
path of my passion. But it was such a fun time
as much as it was stress. Learning about this
new technology, being in that first
instance of being in that environment of having
this big thing to do, really learning how
to manage my time. I don't have any regrets about choosing that topic
and choosing that space. Exactly, yeah. Yeah, I remember that I really enjoyed watching
people do my project. Yeah. Because, this is
a hidden secret, but as much as it's
great to enjoy VR, try sit back and
watch people in VR. I mean, it is can be the most hilarious thing
that you can ever see. That you can ever see. Yeah, just seeing people jump, seeing people dodge, seeing people talk
to themselves. They're not crazy.
They're just having an amazing time in
your experience. That was definitely
a fun new tree I found when working in VR. Just observing people, just
enjoy your experience. It's actually a rewarding
part of the experience, actually having people try it. Their reactions as well. It actually mirroring
what you wanted it to be in the first
space or even better, like someone finding
something new. New. Absolutely. Yeah. That's actually an
amazing feeling. Yeah, I mean, it was it
was pretty much same for me because it was
similar to you, right? Yeah. I had something which was
quite new in a sense. It was a combination of
this hardware and software. You would watch people
trying your project and experience
something different. I was trying to project on a daily basis because
I was building it. It was exciting in the
very first few days when the project was finished. I was excited about it, but after awhile I wanted
other people to play with it. Looking back at the project and the journey and then getting to that endpoint where
people actually tried to experience and watching
them having fun with it. I think that was the most
rewarding thing I could have asked for after
the final project. Looking back at it, I don't
really regret anything even having that explode
in the last week. I think that was
part of it. I really had fun building it. Yeah, even watching
people break it. Yes. I mean, that's also part of it. That's part of it. You have to get used to. You have to just
know that people are going to break your experience, Yes. Sometimes they can unlock a
new mechanic you never know. Like okay, well, sometimes I actually have said
that I meant to do that. Yeah, so you can turn
it into a feature. Turning it into a feature.
It works that way. Yeah, sometimes it does. Okay, that's fine, that
works in the game. Yeah, it's just a
lot of fun just working on something
that's yours, something that's new, something that you want to have impact. Exciting as well, yeah. You grow as a person
through that project. You grow your skills
for that project and actually being able to be, I've done this is definitely such an experience worth
waiting for definitely. Absolutely, yeah. Okay, great. Thanks
a lot, Tom and Drea. I think that's
really good vision and I think for you
students out there, yes it's a bit of
a stressful time, but don't forget to enjoy your project and really
particularly don't forget to take stock of what you've achieved and
how much you've done. Good luck to all of
us and we'll look forward to seeing great projects
you're going to submit.